v0.16 release notes (#239)
cert-manager/website: content/en/docs/release-notes/release-notes-0.16.md

---
title: "Release Notes"
linkTitle: "v0.16"
weight: 850
type: "docs"
---

The `v0.16` release has a few focus areas:

* Enable the new certificate controller for all users
* `kubectl cert-manager create certificaterequest` for signing local certificates
* `v1beta1` API

As usual, please read the [upgrade notes](/docs/installation/upgrading/upgrading-0.15-0.16/) before upgrading.

## New certificate controller

The Certificate controller is one of the most commonly used controllers in the project.
It represents the 'full lifecycle' of an x509 private key and certificate, including
private key management and renewal.

In v0.15 we added these under a feature gate to allow users to test these and gather feedback.

> Thanks to everyone testing these and reporting issues we were able fix issues and improve the controller.

Reviewer: able to

> In v0.16 this controller is nor the default one in cert-manager. 

Reviewer: now

> For more information on this we invite you to read our [design document](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/pull/2753).

Reviewer: on this, .. (a comma)

## kubectl cert-manager tool for signing certificates

cert-manager `v0.15` included a kubectl plugin that allowed to interact with cert-manager.
In this release we leverage this plugin to allow users to sign certificates on their computer
or inside the container itself.

TODO: describe how to do this

The kubectl cert-manager binary can be downloaded from the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/)

## `v1beta1` API

We are soon reaching cert-manager v1.0, the new v1beta1 API is our first step towards a stable v1 API.

TODO: list improvements

> If you're using Kubernetes 1.15 or higher conversion webhooks will allow you seamlessly interact with `v1alpha2`, `v1alpha3` and `v1beta1`

Reviewer: or higher, .. (a comma)

---
title: "Release Notes"
linkTitle: "v0.16"
weight: 840
type: "docs"
---

The `v0.16` release has a few focus areas:

* Enable the new certificate controller for all users
* `kubectl cert-manager create certificaterequest` for signing local certificates
* `v1beta1` API

As usual, please read the [upgrade notes](/docs/installation/upgrading/upgrading-0.15-0.16/) before upgrading.

## New certificate controller

The Certificate controller is one of the most commonly used controllers in the project.
It represents the 'full lifecycle' of an x509 private key and certificate, including
private key management and renewal.

> In `v0.15` we added these under a feature gate to allow users to test these and gather feedback.

Reviewer: "Added these". I don't think it's clear what "these" are

Thanks to everyone testing these and reporting issues we were able to fix issues and improve the controller.
In `v0.16` this controller is now the default one in cert-manager. 

For more information on this, we invite you to read our [design document](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/pull/2753).

## kubectl cert-manager tool for signing certificates

> cert-manager `v0.15` included a kubectl plugin that allowed to interact with cert-manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cert-manager `v0.15` included a kubectl plugin that allows users to interact with cert-manager.
```

> In this release we leverage this plugin to allow users to sign certificates on their computer
> or inside the container itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this release we have added a new sub-command to the cert-manager CLI which allows users to sign certificates on their computer
or inside a container.
```

The `kubectl cert-manager create certificaterequest` command creates a new CertificateRequest 
resource based on the YAML manifest of a Certificate resource as specified by `--from-certificate-file` flag.
 
For example this will create a CertificateRequest resource with the name "my-cr" based on the Certificate described in `my-certificate.yaml` while storing the
private key and x509 certificate in `my-cr.key` and `my-cr.crt` respectively.
```console
$ kubectl cert-manager create certificaterequest my-cr --from-certificate-file my-certificate.yaml --fetch-certificate --timeout 20m
```

> The kubectl cert-manager binary can be downloaded from the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/)

Reviewer: Placeholder: In case the plugin is added to krew-index before v0.16 release, do we want to mention it here?

Author: gonna replace it with `More information can be found on our [kubectl plugin page](../../usage/kubectl-plugin/).`

## `v1beta1` API

> We are soon reaching cert-manager `v1.0`, the new `v1beta1` API is our first step towards a stable `v1` API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are soon reaching cert-manager `v1.0` and the new `v1beta1` API is our first step towards a stable `v1` API.
```

> The biggest change users may notice is the improved documentation. We took the time to go over all comments
> which are faced to the user in our documentation or in `kubectl explain`, making them up to date and clear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The biggest change users may notice is the improved API documentation. We took the time to review and update all the user-facing APIs. You can view the [updated API documentation online](https://cert-manager.io/v0.16-docs/reference/api-docs/), or use `kubectl explain` after installing this version of cert-manager.
```

> `v1beta1` does not contain many big changes, this version is focused on streamlining field named and general clean up of the API in order to mature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`v1beta1` does not contain many big changes, this version is focused on streamlining field names and general clean up of the API in preparation for the release of the v1.
```
